Fast Track to Happiness and Peace: A Very Brief Meditation and Recitation of the Medicine Buddha Namo Guru Bhaiṣajye Rājāya. Refuge and Bodhicitta If you wish to practice the abbreviated meditation and recitation of the Medicine Buddha, then begin by taking refuge and arousing bodhicitta three times: In the Buddha, Dharma, and supreme Saṅgha [I take refuge until enlightenment is realized. Through the merit of giving and the other perfections, May I attain buddhahood for the sake of all beings.] [Then meditate on the four immeasurables:] May all sentient beings enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness, [May they be free from suffering and the causes of suffering, May they never be separated from true happiness devoid of suffering, And may they dwell in boundless equanimity, free from attachment and aversion.] Visualization OṂ SVABHĀVA ŚUDDHĀḤ SARVADHARMĀḤ SVABHĀVA ŚUDDHO 'HAṂ Appearing out of emptiness on a lotus-and-moon seat, My own mind is the syllable HŪṂ, which sends out light to accomplish the benefit of myself and others. The light returns, and I transform into the Medicine Buddha. My body is deep blue in color with one face and two hands; The right, in the gesture of supreme giving, holds an arura plant, And the left, in meditation pose, cradles an alms bowl full of nectar. Resplendent, radiant with major and minor marks of perfection, and clad in the three Dharma robes, I sit with legs crossed in the vajra posture. On my right stands red Bodhisattva Sunlight, His left hand holding a lotus on which rests the sun. On my left is white Bodhisattva Moonlight; His left hand holds a lotus on which rests the moon. Their right hands form the mudrā of generosity. Adorned with all the jewel ornaments and silken garments, They stand on lotus-and-moon discs, in reverent attendance on the Medicine Buddha. The three centers of the Medicine Buddha and bodhisattvas are marked with the three syllables, From which light streams out to invoke all the buddhas of the ten directions, Who appear in the form of Medicine Buddhas In the sky in front of me-VAJRA SAMĀJAḤ! With JAḤ HŪṂ BAṂ HOḤ they dissolve inseparably into me. Mantra Recitation In my heart on a moon disc is HŪṂ, encircled by the mantra māla, Which sends out light, making offerings to the exalted ones and purifying all beings of the two obscurations. The light returns with all the compassion, power, and grace of the buddhas and bodhisattvas, Transforming my whole being with their blessings. TADYATHĀ | OṂ BHAIṢAJYE BHAIṢAJYE MAHĀBHAIṢAJYEÉ RĀJA SAMUDGATE SVĀHĀ Recite this mantra as many times as you are able. If you practice more elaborately, you can recite the long dhāraṇī. Offerings When you conclude, the wisdom being you are visualizing yourself as now appears in space in front of you. Then make offerings with the following: OṂ BHAIṢAJYE RĀJA SAPARIVĀRA ARGHAṂ [PĀDYAṂ PUṢPE DHŪPE ĀLOKE GANDHE NAIVEDYE ŚABDA ĀḤ HŪṂ] Praise Transcendent accomplished conqueror, for all of us your compassion is equal and the same. Just hearing your name removes the suffering of the lower realms And cures the diseases of the three poisons. Medicine Buddha, shining with lapis lazuli light-to you I bow! Request Transcendent accomplished victor, Thus-Gone One, Foe Destroyer, Perfectly enlightened Medicine Buddha- Grant me and all sentient beings without limit The siddhis, common and supreme! Thus ends the supplication. Invitation to Depart With OṂ VAJRA MUḤ . . . , invite them to depart. The two bodhisattvas and the lotus and moon-disc seats melt into light and dissolve into me. I imagine my three centers are marked with OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ. Dedication Through this merit may I swiftly Accomplish the Medicine Buddha, [And lead every single sentient being To that state of perfection, too.] Recite this and other dedications and aspirations. If you are doing the approach practice in retreat, be sure to wash and keep everything clean, and recite 100,000 of the short dhāraṇīs, plus an additional 11,000. In between sessions, do prostrations, make offerings (either extensively or concisely, depending on what is suitable), and read either the short or long Medicine Buddha Sūtra, whichever you can manage. The learned renunciant Mañjughoṣa composed this to answer a need. Through this merit, may it be a cause for peace and happiness for all beings. Maṅgalam! 
